# IEEE Quantum Week 2021 Tutorial - Real-time Control of Quantum Computers with OpenQASM3, Qiskit, and IBM Quantum Services

To get started please see the [Hello QASM3 notebook](Hello%20OpenQASM3.ipynb).

**Date**: October 20th, 2021
**Abstract**: Quantum programming languages and software development kits such as OpenQASM and Qiskit describe, compile, and execute quantum circuits consisting of gates and measurements applied to qubits. These tools abstract away the underlying compilation and control systems that orchestrate a quantum system to execute a circuit. Many algorithms such as quantum error correction, require not just ahead-of-time compilation of static circuits, but support for real-time decisions made at runtime based on measurement feedback. These decisions must occur within the lifetime of the computer’s qubits so that they may impact the quantum system before it decoheres. Building quantum computing systems supporting these capabilities will require innovations in program representations, compilers, and computer architectures, providing opportunities for engineers, scientists, and software developers to make contributions in these fields. In this tutorial, we will introduce attendees to OpenQASM3, a quantum programming language that provides the features necessary to pursue quantum advantage in near-term quantum computers. Notable developments include the ability to construct parameterized circuits with integrated classical control flow. Furthermore, OpenQASM3 enables fine-grained control of quantum hardware with timing and calibration support. Following the introduction of OpenQASM3, we will provide a high-level overview of the hardware and software requirements needed to implement these capabilities and survey various approaches being pursued in industry and academia. Finally, attendees will be taught how to write and run programs containing features such as mid-circuit measurements, conditional reset, and gate calibrations on real quantum systems provided through IBM Quantum Services and Qiskit.
